This teacher with me follows, now the Oddiyana is no other than the mind. The meaning of the
Oddiyana, the old meaning of the Oddiyana is, as I said yesterday, it has meaning, flying,
flying and hovering, or flying and walking, walking. This is the true meaning, the old
meaning of that. And then the meaning of what is standing for Oddiyana is the place where
all the Vediyana teaching comes from, or most of the Vediyana teaching comes from. So that
means many times known as the source of the Vediyana teaching or the secret teaching.
So in this case, the source of the secret teaching is no other than the mind. So Oddiya
is standing for the mind itself. Mind is the source of everything, the source of the mantra,
the mantra or the Vediya, and not just only that, this mind is the source of everything,
both samsara and nirvana, everything. From within that status, and then what is there?
Then it says, between the yachins of the west and the north, west and north stand as samsara
and nirvana, we met yesterday. And then, so it is between samsara and nirvana. That means
beyond the samsara and nirvana state is known as the great Maha Pari nirvana, or the great
enlightened state is beyond the samsara, beyond the nirvana. You are not kind of sinking in
the samsara, you know you are not stuck, stuck in the nirvana, as many great ahaas are, rest
in the nirvana, nirvana in the kind of way. Everything is finished and exhausted and then
in a way, almost like, just in a way, as I say, almost like a harpoonating status, harpoonating
status. According to Mahayana teaching, this is not the finest goal. Because ahaada is
not the finest goal, according to Mahayana, because they just only discover the emptiness
of the egolessness. They still have to discover the nature of all phenomena, nature. So therefore,
they just, in a way, rest in a way, in a way, they just rest in an area and in a way, they
stay there. And that is in the teaching said, that is called lord of satara. Mahayana satara,
lord of satara, in that satara said, this great ahaada says in that, this nirvana state
is for ten eons, ten eons, and around, at the end of the ten eons, there is a great light
comes from the buddha, buddhas. Great light comes, it's touched to those who are at the
state of nirvana, their status, and then it wakes up, in a way, it brings up that. And
in front of that light, it says, oh, this very resting is not the final goal. Still you
should pursue, continually to get, continually pursue and become buddha, enlightenment. As
they got that message in the teaching, and then they began to continually walk again,
develop the bodhijata, and walk as with six params, and then reaching in, fully enlightenment.
So that is what is like those ahasas. So in this case, nirvana is as like basic Buddhism,
nirvanas. And so, it is not stuck there, nirvana is not just only sattva, like, isolated from
the samsara, and from the samsara challenge, and rest in the nirvana. So, therefore, it is
this great nirvana, which is known as beyond the samsara, and beyond the nirvana, and that
is indicated by some, the borderlines of the nirvana in the samsara. So it's not really
the border itself, but it is beyond of the samsara and nirvanas. In that borderline,
in that state, then who is residing? That is, who is residing is the Pima Kesa Dungpala.
That's what the teacher said. Pima Kesa Dungpala is residing. What is Pima Kesa Dungpala?
It is our authentic nature of the mind. Our authentic knowledge, which is often known
as Buddha nature, that Buddha nature is, is beyond the samsara and beyond the nirvana.
That is our innate nature. This innate nature of us, I say this, is the mostly nuclear wisdom,
the primordial wisdom, powerful nuclear wisdom. That which is residing is beyond the samsara,
is beyond the nirvana. It is not propagated by any circumstance of the cause and conditions.
Therefore, it is self-born, the primordial wisdom. Therefore, it is always there.
This is known as in the Buddha's teaching, in January Buddha's teaching in Mahayana,
the Buddha's nature. Because of having this nature, every living being,
we all have the beautiful qualities. Qualities of such as love, kindness, compassion, intelligence,
even we are covered by the midst of the, or with the heavy of the burden of the duality,
but still the power of the hidden of Buddha nature or this self-born primordial is shining
through the midst of this, the habitual thick clothes as sun, light penetrates.
Even the heavy thick clothes, light penetrates and bring the daylight in the samsara.
Similarly, this, here is the time in the samsara, still is continually guide.
Because of this beautiful qualities, then we pursue, we walk for that, then we can become the
Buddha.
This is what the reason, that we can make a change, we can develop, we can remove and pacify,
this temporarily arises, the thick clothes are bigger patterns.
That's what the teaching said and that's what the witness by all these great masters.